In this video, we're going to
create an Append Query that
pulls data from three or
more external data sources.
One of the more
common issues we run
into with Excel is when
the dataset has been split
over multiple worksheet tabs.
This may make sense from
the organizational point of view,
but it does make
it very difficult
to work with the data as a whole.
We're going to look
at how we can solve
that problem using Power Query.
In this scenario, we
have a brand new online
training system,
but it produces the weekly
training report as a PDF file.
Now previously, this
would have been
a fairly tricky problem to
get that data into Excel.
But in the newer versions,
you can actually pull data
into Excel from a PDF.
If however that PDF is
over multiple pages,
you will need to
append those queries,
and that's what we're
going to do now.
I'm going to minimize that,
and back in our
original workbook,
we're going to get data.
In the older version,
you're going to click New Query,
and in the new aversion,
you're going to click
Get Data and from file.
Now, if you have
the option to get
from PDF, please choose that.
If you don't not a problem,
you can choose from workbook and
go through almost exactly
the same process,
except you're going
to pull it from
different tabs in a workbook.
Choose whichever
option is appropriate,
and navigate to your workbooks.
You have two online
training reports,
and again, if you're
working with PDF,
make sure you get the PDF.
If you're working with Excel,
choose the Excel and
double-click to select.
If you're getting data from
an external Excel file,
it will show you each of the
sheets within that file.
But if you've created tables,
it will give you the option to
import it direct from the table,
which is usually a clean option.
With the PDF, we have
a similar scenario,
it's showing me
each of the pages,
but the pages contain headers and
footers and a lot of
information I don't want.
Amazingly, it also has
recognized that they're
tables within those sheets,
and so it allows maybe option
to just import the table data.
Whichever option you going with,
we need to select multiple items.
Please check the select
multiple items box,
and then we're going to
select the three tables.
We do need to make a
small transformation,
so click Transform Data or Edit.
In the Power Query Editor,
what I'm seeing is a
preview of my first query,
it hasn't appended the data yet.
There is another step to go.
I could close and load and do
it the same way we
did it last time,
but you can actually append
from within the Query Editor.
I'm hoping you're looking for
the Append Queries button,
I'm going to click
the dropdown and
choose Append Queries as New.
If I chose a Append Queries,
it would actually change
my Table 1 query,
which is not what I want.
I'm going to create
a brand new query,
and I need to get the data
from three or more tables,
so I'm going to select three.
It's already added in your
first query is a Table 1 then.
To add Table 2, select
Table 2 and click Add.
Alternatively, and
I'll do this with
Table 3, you can
just double-click.
When you've got all
your tables listed,
you can click Okay.
But something has gone
a little bit wrong.
Remember we saw in the
previous video that it uses
the column headings to choose
how to stack the data.
Because these column
headings were different,
it's created additional columns
and padded out the
gaps with nulls.
Fortunately, this is
really easily fixed.
All we need to do is rename
our column headings
in our other queries.
Let's come to Table 2 first,
and you'll see
there's the problem.
We're going to change
Column 1 to be staff ID,
and I'm going to change
Column 2 to be staff name,
and Column 3 is going to be
status, and press enter.
Having a look in
your formula bar,
you can see a line
of M-code has been
created to change all
the column headings.
Now, wouldn't it be nice if
rather than going through
this whole process,
we could just copy that
line of code, well we can.
Clicking into our formula bar,
we're going to select
all of the code.
I'm going to press
Control C to copy.
They're not going
to come to Table 3,
and I don't want to change
any of the existing steps,
I need to add a new step.
Making sure I have the
last step selected,
which it will be by default.
I'm going to come to
my effects just to the
left of the formula bar,
and single clicking on
that adds a new step.
Now I can just
replace what's there
Control V with my step to
change the column headings,
and when I press Enter,
you'll see that
it's done the job.
We're starting to see how
getting little more familiar with
the M-code can help us work
a little more efficiently.
Let's go back to
our Append Queries.
On the left you can select
your Append Query, all
beautifully fixed.
Let's give it a sensible
names instead of Append,
I'm going to call that report,
and now I'm ready
to close and load.
Back to close and load,
close and load to.
It's going to apply
whatever I choose here
to all four tables.
I'm going to choose
only create connection,
and then I'm going to say, okay.
Now on the right-hand side in
my Queries and Connections,
you'll see here are
four new queries.
But the report, I actually
want to come back into Excel.
Good news is you can change
your load options at any point.
Coming back to our report,
we're going to right-click,
we're going to choose Load to,
and I'm going to say
table in a new worksheet.
Then we're going to click Okay,
and there is our online
training report.
The best part is when the new
report comes in next week,
I just save it over
the old report,
hit the refresh button,
and this is up to date.
We've had a look
at how we can use
Append Queries to stack
datasets on top of each other.
In the next video,
we're going to have a look at
a different way of joining
dataset called Emerge Query.